[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>JIMMY CHURCH:
Welcome, everybody.
I'm Jimmy Church.
You might know me from Into
The Vortex right here on Gaia.
And I'm honored to
be guest hosting
for George Noory on this
episode of Beyond Belief.
Joining me today is Jason
Quitt, an esoteric researcher
and author who's been
exploring energy work
and spiritual
traditions since 2002.
He's a graduate of the
Institute of Energy Wellness
and has spent years
teaching and speaking
around the world on
mysticism, sacred geometry,
and, of course, ancient history.
His latest book is
Gates of the Anunnaki,
and it breaks open
ancient texts using
what he calls the forgotten
language of the stars.
It's all powerful stuff.
And trust me,
you're going to want
to listen to everything
that we go over today.
Now, in the interest
of transparency,
I wrote the foreword
to this book,
and I did it because the book
is great and it has inspired me.
Jason, welcome to the show.
>>JASON QUITT:
Thanks for having me.
>>CHURCH: It's inspired me.
But what inspired you
to write this book?
>>QUITT: Well, as you know,
I'm always been interested
in mysticism, and
it always started
with out-of-body experiences
and different contact,
altered states of consciousness.
So I really wanted to research
what ancient civilizations
knew about the
afterlife, what they
knew about altered states of
consciousness in that world.
So I started to research
ancient Sumeria, ancient Egypt,
and I'm trying to find
what the ancients knew.
And it kind of took me on
a path I wasn't expecting
because I wanted to look into
the mystical side of things,
things that are not really
talked about, the esoteric.
And what really pulled
me in a direction
was I started to see
a relation to the gods
and goddesses and the
ancient myths to the stars
and how they were all connected
to the cycles of time,
to the cycles of the sun and
the moon and the planets,
and how the different
constellations basically shaped
and molded ancient philosophies
and ancient mythologies.
And it's traveled for thousands
of years as information
into theology and religions
that we know today.
So it really took me on a
path that I wasn't expecting,
and it opened up this
whole other world to me
about this language of the stars
and how ancient civilizations
basically created allegories and
symbolism and myths in relation
to the as above,
so below principle
to show that when they look
up in the sky and, let's say,
they see a certain
constellation,
something has to be done on
Earth because we have the four
seasons, everything
changes in cycles,
that basically they applied the
logic of as above, so below.
And they wrote, when you see
these stars in the skies,
this is what's
happening on Earth,
and this is what you
have to have to do.
>>CHURCH: Were the ancients
hoping that somebody
like yourself would
see this encoded wisdom
and then unwrap it and decode
it for us in the future?
Because it's right
there in plain sight
and on different continents and
cave walls and temple sites.
It's all right there in
front of us, isn't it?
>>QUITT: It is.
And, you know,
our minds and what
we do today is not what
they used to do in the past.
So when we look at symbols today
or look at artwork, architecture
today, we put it
in the framework
of what we believe today.
We put our filters on it.
But in the past, remember,
they didn't have TV.
They looked up at the stars.
So for them studying
the environment,
studying the cycles
of time, they
needed to know
this for survival.
It was extremely
important to them.
So for them, it was pretty
obvious when the rainy seasons
were, when the dry seasons
were, when they should plant,
when they should harvest.
And if you're part of a
farming community today,
you know how important
that is for their survival.
If you don't plant the
seeds at the right time
or harvest them
at the right time,
your population, your
family, can starve.
So it was a matter of
survival to know the stars,
know the cycles of time.
And they would encode it
in their myths and symbols.
And we find symbology
across the entire globe
related to the stars
and the cycles,
mostly connected to
agricultural societies
and agricultural cycles of when
to plant and when to harvest.
And we still have
these things today
where we celebrate different
festivals on very specific dates
of the year.
And these are usually
around the summer solstices,
mostly around spring
equinox or fall
equinox, when it's
the time to plant,
when it's the time to harvest.
So this is ingrained in us
since our earliest ancestors.
>>CHURCH: What was
the moment for you
where you started to
see a correlation?
Was there a specific degree
or geometry, something
that just stood out,
that was starting
to repeat in these
different symbols?
>>QUITT: Yes.
Well, my background is
also a graphic designer.
That's where I started off.
And, you know, when
you're writing a book,
you take the picture.
Let's say, the hieroglyphs
or the artwork.
And I throw it up
on Illustrator,
and I start tracing it so that
I could have a nice vector line
art file that I can use in
book and print and whatever.
And there's this
ancient saying, if you
want to know the
truth of something,
you have to measure it.
And that's always in
the back of my mind.
So I started to trace
a number of symbols
from the tombs of ancient
Egypt, and I started
to see this repeating pattern.
And maybe it's me, or maybe
I had a higher guidance,
but that voice was
basically saying,
if you want to know the truth
of something, measure it.
And I know that ancient Egypt
is all about measurements,
like Toth is, the God of
measurements and numbers.
And I can see that they use
the cubit, which is a measuring
stick in ancient Egypt.
So I decided to start
measuring these angles,
and I kept having this
repeating pattern of a number
that originally I had no
idea what it was about,
but this number kept coming
up over and over when
I was doing these illustrations,
and it was 23.5 degrees.
And I just did a quick
Google search really
to figure this out.
And every person
should know this.
It's the tilt of the Earth,
and the tilt of the Earth
is 23.5 degrees.
And because the
Earth is tilted, this
is where we get our seasons.
This is where we
get the solar cycle.
It's a very, very ancient key.
And what blew my mind is we're
not supposed to know about this.
As in the ancient people
who knew this information,
how did they know the Earth
was 23.5 degrees tilted?
>>CHURCH: It seems
impossible, doesn't it?
>>QUITT: It seems outlandish
because how could they
measure these very
specific things
and then spread it from
culture to culture?
And again, in our
education system,
we're taught that this
information was found out about
2,000 years ago, and
it's given to Greeks.
Now, if the Egyptians
had this measurement
all over their
artwork, and I can
find this going back
even to ancient Sumeria
and other locations
around the planet,
it means that there is this
worldwide understanding
of the division of the heavens,
the measurements of the Earth,
and that our ancestors
across all religions,
all different peoples, they
had a fundamental knowledge
of the stars in
the Earth, a very
precise mathematical
foundation of this.
And they encoded it within their
architecture, their artwork,
and even in their myths.
They put these sacred numbers
directly in their myths.
>>CHURCH: Well, there
is a big question that
has to be asked at this point.
And it's fundamental and it's
non-trivial, which is, were they
taught these cosmic cycles?
Were they taught this cosmology?
Or did they have the technology
to figure this out on their own?
Either answer to that is
extraordinary, isn't it?
Which way do you
think this is going?
>>QUITT: I think this goes
into the ancient mystical
understanding that the
body is the image of god,
or the body is the
measuring tool of the cosmos
and our body is built
fundamentally on very
sacred geometry proportions.
And that to measure
the sky, for example,
a very simple thing is you
could take your arm and hand
and put it in front of you, like
they teach you in the scouts.
And from your eye to
your hand, just like
from your eye to your
hand to the horizon
equals 15 degrees of sky.
So you can divide the heavens
15 degrees using your hand.
And that equals 1 hour of time
of the movement of the sun
through the sky.
So I would say the first
technological instrument
that ancient humans used
to measure and plot out
everything was just
their human body itself.
They used their arm, hand,
to create a measuring system
to divide heaven and Earth.
And even the ancient
cubit, the Egyptian cubit--
and the cubit was
even used in Sumeria--
you have pictures of ancient
Sumerian gods holding
the cubit rod, which
if you measured it,
it was the length from the
elbow to the tip of the finger.
So they would use this
measurement, the arm
and the hand, to basically
measure heaven and Earth.
>>CHURCH: When we look at what
appears to be an ancient star
language now, that's
what we're talking about,
and you have the gods of Sumer,
you have the gods of Egypt,
but you also have the
gods around the world
with other cultures,
all using 23.5
degrees and other
instances, too, as well.
But they weren't
communicating with each other.
Sumer and Egypt are
very close, but they
weren't sharing information.
So it seems that either
somebody taught them this
at the same time, or there
was something else going on
and it was happening
globally, wasn't it?
>>QUITT: Yes.
And you know, this
begs the question,
was there a heritage
of knowledge
that came before all of this and
was spread throughout the world?
Or you get to this other
theory of let's say,
like a mass casualty
event, where
people had to rebuild
across the planet,
and then you had these teachers
that held the knowledge that
would travel from group to
group to reteach civilization.
I think both of
these are plausible,
but again, it is
an absolute mystery
how civilizations separated
by sea and thousands of miles
would actually
have this knowledge
and design it the same way.
And I know we're going to get
deeper into symbolism here.
And there is symbolism that
is identical from, let's say,
going to Bolivia
to Egypt to Sumer,
it goes back all the way to
the most ancient cultures,
even going back to Gobekli Tepe.
So again, where is that
original knowledge coming from?
And again, where do those
symbols come from originally?
And what do they actually mean?
So this is the mystery to
me, and this is the path
that I'm trying to follow,
is to understand where
do these symbols come from.
And the answer that keeps
popping up over and over again
is it's related to the stars
and the cycles of time.
>>CHURCH: Are those
symbols, for them,
during that period, a recipe,
a preservation of knowledge,
or were they created in
stone for us in the future?
>>QUITT: I love this
question because a lot
of these artifacts, a
lot of these depictions
are found in the sealed
tombs, especially
in the Valley of the Kings.
So it's almost like they created
this time capsule for somebody
in the future.
Let's say, we lost
all information.
We have those depictions
that if we study them,
we start to learn
about all these things.
The monuments themselves
are incredible.
They built megalithic
monuments with these numbers
in mind, with these alignments
to the stars in mind.
So it's literally-- you
could say, well, what's
the secret of the pyramids.
It's a simple question.
Well, if you just look at the
dimensions, where it's located
and what they depict,
it's giving us
an answer, which is pointing to
the stars and cycles of time.
So for them, it was
a vital importance.
But I think for our future,
it's vitally important as well.
>>CHURCH: Where you have--
you have the Egyptian
gods that all of them
tend to represent
something natural.
And we understand that.
But it was the same thing
going on in ancient Sumer
and Mesopotamia.
But it also folds over into
the rest of the world, too.
But as communication
advanced, you
can understand how those
gods were shared and renamed.
But when we push back
in ancient history
into Mesopotamia and
ancient Sumer and Egypt,
these gods are the
same natural forces.
Were they actually in
contact with these gods?
And could these gods
have come from elsewhere?
>>QUITT: Well, this is a
very interesting question
because it really depends
on your belief system
and how you interpret
these ancient texts,
because many will look
at the ancient texts
and look at the gods as
coming from heaven to Earth,
or coming from the stars or
the gods or from the stars.
And as you start to
read the translations
of the ancient texts
yourselves, it kind of
switches the other way to
saying the gods are the stars.
For example, in the
Pyramid Texts of Unas,
it literally tells you Sah, like
Orion is like the god Osiris.
So as they go to Orion,
they look at it as the god.
Gemini is the Twins of Atum.
So it's like you have these
gods, but in the actual text
themselves are
depicted and spoken
about as the actual
constellations in the heaven.
>>CHURCH: Like we have
Ishtar and Shamash.
>>QUITT: Yes.
And if you go back to Sumer
or going back, you have,
let's say, Ishtar, and Shamash.
Ishtar is the morning
star, which is Venus,
and she is the twin
sister to Shamash, which
is the sun god, the actual sun.
And if you look in
the sky, they're
twins because it's
the morning star.
It greets the sun in
the eastern horizon.
And Ishtar as Venus is also
connected to fertility,
vegetation, spring.
So these are stars that ancient
people were familiar with,
and they would look
to in the morning sky
to understand these
cycles of time.
>>CHURCH: This duality
repeats itself, doesn't it,
across cultures?
And we have Marduk, Tiamat,
same situation there.
>>QUITT: Yeah.
And the interesting
thing about that is it
comes from a creation
text, the Enuma Eliš.
And this is a Babylonian
creation text.
And Tiamat is the salt water.
So she's like the
abyss, the dark waters,
and she's basically put together
an army to kill the gods,
because the gods are very noisy
and they want their sleep.
It's the same story with
the creation of man.
They get very noisy and the gods
say, we got to get rid of them
because they can't sleep.
But Marduk, he kills
Tiamat, rips her apart.
Her one half of her body
becomes the heavens,
the other creates the universe,
physical matter in the Earth.
And he becomes the
patron deity of Babylon.
So if you go back to like,
ancient Sumer, Arcadia,
Babylonian times, each
city-state had their own god.
So like the first city,
Eridu, had Enki as the god.
Ur had Ishtar.
But when you go to
Babylon, it was originally
Enlil was the God, patron god.
And then the Babylonian
Empire, which we all know now,
they switched it to
Marduk, the supreme god.
And you see these reflections
in other cultures,
especially with Marduk, who
also represents Jupiter.
And he uses a weapon
like bolts of lightning,
so it goes directly into Zeus,
because Zeus is also connected
to Jupiter and with lightning.
So you have these same kind
of motif, motifs and themes
that you find cross-culturally.
And most interestingly, if you
study both ancient Sumerian
gods and the Egyptian gods,
it's almost an exact parallel
to the hierarchy of creation.
>>CHURCH: Isn't
it interesting how
history, historians,
archeology, and so forth, all
of that Orthodox
academia wants us
to draw a line between Stone
Age man and modern civilization?
That Stone Age man was
foraging for seeds in the dirt,
wearing animal
skins until 3000 BC.
Nothing was going on, there's
nothing to talk about when you,
in your research, and
what we're finding now
is that they were well-advanced.
They had a firm understanding
of engineering, of astronomy,
of laws, of order, agriculture,
culture and civilization.
They weren't wearing animal
skins running around foraging
for seeds, were they?
They were an advanced culture.
>>QUITT: They were definitely
an advanced culture.
And just because they
didn't have the technology
that we have today, let's say
like cell phones, computers--
cell phones, computers,
things of that nature,
we look at them as primitive.
But again, could we build
the pyramids today with what
we have?
And no, they had tools
available to them
because they were geniuses.
They measured the sky.
They aligned monuments
to various cycles.
That is very complicated
work, very mathematically
precise work.
And you have to be an
expert to pull these off.
Some of the alignments
are so incredible.
For example, in Mexico,
you have the pyramid
that during the equinox it
produces the shadow of two
serpents descending down.
Just the understanding of
astronomy, the understanding
of the 23.5 degrees
of the equinox,
it's absolutely profound
that ancient humans
were able to actually pull
this off that precisely.
>>CHURCH: Here's the thing.
We have creation stories
like this from every culture.
It indicates one single teacher.
There's got to be a
common source here.
Was that common source from
a previous civilization
here on Earth?
That maybe went extinct and
we had survivors, or maybe
did it come from the stars?
>>QUITT: I really
think it's both.
I think that humans, when
they look up at the stars,
will start to get the same
impressions of different things.
But I also think that there was
this teacher or teachers that
went around the planet
teaching from a time we
don't know much about.
All we know is if
we go back in time,
let's say, we look at Gobekli
Tepe, it's completely buried.
And it has megalithic sites.
It has carvings that are very
much aligned with the stars,
and then it gets buried.
And then you have a
gap for 4,000 years,
where you go back to
neolithic pottery.
OK, no, no more ancient
building, megalithic structures.
And then suddenly,
around like 4000 BC,
you have this other
influx of building
again connected to the
stars and knowledge.
So did something
happen in our planet
where basically we were
advanced or advanced enough, had
certain knowledge, suddenly we
went back to the Neolithic Stone
Age for thousands of years?
>>CHURCH: Well, I need to
bring up the A-word then.
And it's not aliens,
it's Atlantis.
>>QUITT: Yeah.
>>CHURCH: Is there
a possibility here
with Plato, and other
references, but Plato
is certainly mentioned
first, that there
was a catastrophe and
survivors, and that
could be our global teachers
and how wisdom was spread?
>>QUITT: We know from
archeological records
that there has been many
floods, many cataclysms
throughout our history.
So to think that there isn't--
because it's just
us, we're humans.
To think that there wasn't
a human gathering or race
or group of people that
were advanced enough
to understand, to navigate
the world, to build things,
I think that's an extreme
point of view to believe
that we didn't have that.
So if a cataclysm
did happen, which
we can show that it did in
multiple areas around the planet
back then, then if
there are survivors,
then they would pass
on a knowledge that
is the most important
knowledge on Earth, which
is the knowledge of the stars,
the knowledge of the cycles,
knowledge of agriculture,
knowledge of society.
This is the building
blocks of what humanity is.
We have to understand
these basic principles
to be modern humans.
So I really believe that there
was these teachers or survivors
that went around to re-educate
and to spread this knowledge,
so it will never be lost.
>>CHURCH: Plato, of course,
said Atlantis was just
outside the pillars of Hercules.
And that's been speculated
a lot over the years,
where are the pillars
of or certainly
what do they represent
and where could they be.
In your research, you
recreated this map
showing what Plato
was talking about.
We have the map right here.
And let's take a look at
this and walk us through it.
>>QUITT: Sure.
So our pole star moves.
So it travels around
because of the 23.5 degree
tilt of the Earth, our pole
star, which is Polaris,
is not stationary.
So we go around in this circle,
which is roughly 26,000 years.
And the polarity of
Polaris is Vega in Lyra.
So every about 13,000 years,
we go back and forth from Vega
being our pole star to
Polaris being our pole star.
But if you go back to the exact
date of when Plato described
the destruction of
Atlantis, it ends up
in a very interesting place.
And if you look at
this circle right
between the arms of Hercules,
the constellation at 9600
BCE in the age of cancer,
that is when Plato describes
the destruction of Atlantis.
And what's very
interesting is that I
believe this is the
cycle of the stars that
is very important to our
ancients, where they actually
saw destruction.
Because think about
it, after the Ice Age,
humanity looks up
in the North Sky
and they see Vega, which is
the brightest star in the sky,
and that is the North Star.
It's like the new guiding
light of humanity.
And they can now
navigate the Earth.
And then what happens is
slowly, over thousands
of years, that star Vega no
longer is the North Star.
It goes out of phase
with being north.
And as it goes between
Hercules and Thuban in Draco,
you have about 8,000 years where
there's really no fixed star
in the sky to lead people.
So it's almost like once
you get to Thuban, which
is on the tail of
Draco, this is where
the start of the civilization
as we know it happens.
This is when the building
of the pyramids happened.
This is where we have advanced
civilization building up again.
You have all this serpent
iconography around this time.
It's because of this star
map of the northern sky,
and I believe that is when
the guiding light comes back
to Earth, where they can
navigate the planet again.
They know exactly the stars.
And this is why the
stars are so important.
>>CHURCH: It's not a coincidence
that Carl Sagan chose Vega
for the message
and contact, right?
It's kind of interesting
and a weird coincidence,
but all of this was 12,000
years ago, 10,000 BC, 10,500 BC,
a number that we see
come up across cultures.
Gobekli Tepe is a great
representation of that.
But 10,000 BC, 10,500 BC, in
the end of the last Ice Age
and a possible cataclysm, the
rise and fall of civilizations
around the world.
This number is repeated.
It's the rise of Leo.
It's repeated over
and over again.
It's in front of the Sphinx.
This is not coincidence, is it?
And it's in this symbolism.
>>QUITT: It's in the
symbolism and the myths.
Like, if you look at the myths
of Orion, the great hunter,
there's a meteor
shower that takes
place when you look up at Orion
and it happens around the fall.
And basically, when
you look up in the sky
and you see the meteors
hitting the Earth, what does
it look like?
It looks like Orion is
shooting his arrows on Earth.
And if you go to the
mythology of Orion,
it talks about how
at one time, Orion
sets out to kill all
life on planet Earth
by shooting his arrows
and killing all life.
So if you go back
in history, maybe we
can say one of those arrows
from Orion did hit the Earth
and killed everything.
So we have a record
in mythology,
but then in the exact same myth,
it says the scorpion stung Orion
and killed him.
And he was honored
for saving the Earth.
So again, it's like
when you look up
at the sky in Scorpio,
when we move into Scorpio,
in the night sky, that's
when the meteor shower stops.
So it's this myth that's
encoded in the stars.
>>CHURCH: Were they using Vega
in cosmology to see travel?
And was that a possible way
for transoceanic communication
and contact between cultures?
>>QUITT: They would need
to understand the stars
and they would need the north
hemisphere stars like Polaris,
like the Big Dipper,
Little Dipper, and Vega,
which is in Lyra.
These are the stars in
the northern hemisphere.
And to travel the Earth not
just by boat, but even by land,
they would need to know the
Northern sky intimately.
So it's very important.
If you don't want
to get lost at sea,
you need to know what
stars are above your head.
>>CHURCH: What about here
in Central and South America
and North America, and the
petroglyphs and the symbolism
that is over here,
which would seem
to be thousands and
thousands of miles
away from the Mediterranean.
How do we make
those connections?
>>QUITT: Well, they
are are too perfect.
And I could list a number
of different symbols.
But one of the symbols
that I love seeing
is these two mounds or two hills
with the sun coming out of it
or setting with it.
In Egypt is called the akhet,
which is sun setting or rising
between the two mounds.
And you see this also in the
Mayan calendar, the fourth day,
which is Kukulkan.
You actually see again,
you see these two mounds
with the sun above it.
So you have a symbol in
Egypt, exactly the same
as a symbol in Maya.
So that's just one.
Another one is called
the staff gods,
which is a very ancient symbol.
And it's found all the
way back in Mesopotamia.
It's found in ancient Anatolia.
This is a very old.
I think the oldest one is
about 6,000 or 7,000 years old.
And you see it in Egypt.
It's the gods that are
holding the two staffs.
And you see it all
over South America.
How is it possible that you
have the exact same symbols,
meaning the exact
same thing found
in two places around the Earth?
Now, it's either
there was navigation,
like you said, traveling through
both from the stars, which
I think is entirely possible.
Or they have this
unique heritage.
And I just want to also
back up because earlier, we
were talking about
the creation myth
where Marduk basically
tears Tiamat apart.
And she's in the form of
this great like dragon sea
serpent being.
If you go back to Mexico, to the
creation myth with Quetzalcoatl,
he and his brother also fight
a great sea serpent crocodile,
which represents the waters.
He also rips the body of
that sea serpent apart,
and he also creates heaven
and earth with that body.
So you have Marduk and
Tiamat in Sumeria, Babylon.
And then you have it in Mexico.
How do you have
the exact same myth
in two completely
different places,
even though two different
cultures, two different names--
>>CHURCH: Two
different languages.
>>QUITT: Two
It's the same motif,
it's the same theme.
So this is what I'm
looking for when
I'm doing the research is,
how does one culture have
a myth that's identical
to another myth
somewhere else in the Earth?
And it's only understood if
there was travel and trade
worldwide at a very ancient time
that we're not acknowledging.
>>CHURCH: One of the things
that you do is you teach.
And when you have ancient myths
with astronomy inside of it,
you have gods represented as
constellations and seasons.
This is very important.
But they were looking up
and seeing the same things
in the constellations.
I don't necessarily
see that when
I look up into the night
sky, but you teach that.
But they were seeing
the exact same symbols
in the constellations
combined with the seasons.
How do we fix this?
How do we understand
that ancients can look up
at constellations and see this?
>>QUITT: Well, there
has to be one source.
And this is where I think the
story of the Tower of Babylon
comes in, which is this
ancient theme or story where
they built these towers
to observe the heavens.
And they had this knowledge
that was so important,
they spoke one knowledge.
And I believe that one knowledge
was this star language,
this star knowledge that
became the Zodiac, that
became these myths and cycles.
And then something happened.
It says God broke them up,
spread them across the Earth.
My guess is that it was a
worldwide catastrophe that
separated people, and they had
to relearn their new languages
in new locations on the
planet, and that they basically
had to start again and they
lost that star language.
And each culture, I believe, has
a piece of this star language
and the stars.
And we could only figure it
out if we bring it all together
and start looking
at it as a whole.
>>CHURCH: We've got
the illustration
here of the Seal of Adda.
Walk me through this.
>>QUITT: This is amazing.
This is over 4,000 years old.
And again, you see
these two hills.
We were talking earlier about
these two hills symbology.
And you have Enki,
which is well known.
He has the water and fish
coming out of his shoulders.
He's holding an eagle.
He's stepping over a goat
on one of these mounds.
Then you have Shamash,
who is in the middle.
He's the sun god.
He's holding a
knife in his hand.
And then you have
Ishtar standing
on the other hill, holding
barley or wheat in her hand.
And she's standing
by the tree of life.
Now, we look at this,
and we're trying
to figure out what this means.
But if you understand the
language of the stars,
it starts to make sense because
our constellations are based off
this mythology.
You have Enki
stepping over a goat,
and he's holding an
eagle in one hand.
Well, if you look
at the wet season,
the winter star
constellations, you
have Aquarius, which
is the water bearer.
You have the fish,
which is Pisces.
Right next to it, you have
Capricorn, which is the goat,
and you have Aquila, the eagle,
the bird in the night sky.
So if you look at the opposing
signs of a Zodiac on one side,
you have Pisces, the other
side, what do you have?
You have Virgo the Virgin.
And the symbol of Virgo the
Virgin is the shaft of wheat.
So whenever you
see these goddesses
holding a shaft of wheat, it
symbolizes the stars of Virgo.
What's really, really
interesting about this scene
is Shemesh.
Shemesh is the sun god in
between the two pillars
or the two mounds.
And you can see the heat rays of
the sun coming off his shoulder,
and he's holding a knife.
But he's also holding
Ishtar's foot.
Why is he doing this is because
he's the summer heat, the sun,
the time of the harvest.
So he's cutting down Ishtar--
>>CHURCH: Who's holding
the shafts of wheat.
>>QUITT: Yes.
And so she protects
the tree of life,
which is fertility on Earth,
and he's cutting it down.
So if you understand the star
language and the language
of symbolism, when you
look at these symbols,
they start to tell a story.
So even though there's
no texts on this
and we're trying
to interpret it,
if you understand
the star language,
you just understand what
it's trying to depict.
>>CHURCH: Do you
have the ability now?
And can you turn it on and off?
but when you look at
symbolism and you look at,
is this immediate
and in front of you?
Can you see the stars?
Can you see the seasons?
Can you see what
the gods represent?
Do you see through it now?
>>QUITT: I do.
It's taking me a long time
and a lot of research,
but you see it cross-culturally.
And it really fills
in the blanks.
So when you're
looking at monuments,
when you're looking at
the gods and goddesses,
what are they holding?
What are they standing on?
For example, like
you look at Ishtar,
a lot of Ishtar
symbolism is she's
standing on the back of a lion.
Look up in the sky, what is
the constellation next to Virgo
is Leo the Lion.
Her foot is on the back of Leo.
So all these symbols are
connected to this as above,
so below principle.
So even though it's been lost in
time, the symbols do not change
and the stars do not change.
And once we make
that connection,
it's undeniable what
they're trying to tell us.
>>CHURCH: Let's jump
into the Sumerian Kings
list, one of my favorite
subjects objects
to research, because of
the vast amount of time
that we are talking about here.
Do we take it literally?
>>QUITT: Now, I'll get into
a conspiracy about this
because, no, I don't think
we should be taking it
seriously as it actually
was a king's list of rulers.
You have about two--
let me think.
241,200 years--
>>CHURCH: That's right.
>>QUITT: --of the pre-flood
kings, which are eight kings,
five kingdoms.
And when you look at those
numbers, they're very long.
You have some that--
some reigns that go
for 43,200 years.
You have-- and it's just--
how can that be real?
>>CHURCH: Well, science
says it's possible.
Let me jump in.
>>QUITT: Yeah.
>>CHURCH: Homo sapiens
sapiens, according to science,
appeared 200,000 years ago.
And then we have the Sumerian
Kings list and the mythology
behind that that
supports that number.
It's nearly exact
in the timeline.
So does one support the other.
Is it possible that maybe the
King's list is actually correct,
because it lines up with our
own research and science?
>>QUITT: In that regard, I would
say yes, it could be correct.
But the conspiracy that I'm
looking at is when you look
at the King's list, the earliest
version of the king's list comes
around about 4,000 years ago.
And it was around the
exact same time of a person
or a king named Sargon
the Great, who basically
created the Akkadian Empire.
And his name is on that
Sumerian King's list.
But there really isn't anything
before that in terms of they've
never found a
tablet before that.
So my conspiracy is
did Sargon the Great
create that Kings list to
solidify his rule, to show
that he is in the long
list, going all the way
back to the first city of Eridu,
which was connected to Enki?
>>CHURCH: Which brings
us to the Great Pyramid.
And it represents something
in ancient history
with civilizations, for sure.
But there's so much
mystery behind it.
We don't have any answers.
There's a lot of news and
breaking news around it today.
But if we look,
certainly we know
about the alignments going
north in the precision of that
and it being level.
OK, we understand all of that.
But what about your research
tying it to the equinoxes?
>>QUITT: Well, I think the
biggest secret to the pyramids
is the sun's alignment
during the equinox.
Now, we all know
that the Sphinx looks
due east, so that you can see
the rising sun of the equinoxes.
But if you're standing
in front of the Sphinx,
looking at the Sphinx, the
pyramid behind it, Khafre,
the sun sets right on the back--
>>CHURCH: We have
an illustration.
Walk us through this.
>>QUITT: So the sun sets right
on the back of the Sphinx
on the equinox.
And this image is actually
taken from the Tomb of Twosret
from the Valley of the Kings.
And it's a very strange
picture of Horus and Seth
in one body equally standing
on the back of the Sphinx.
Now, during the equinox,
a very interesting thing
happens to the pyramid of
Khufu, because it's not
a four-sided pyramid, it's
an eight-sided pyramid.
And only on the equinox
do we see the shadow
on one face of the
pyramid and not the other.
So you get this division of
half light, half dark, 12 hours
of day, 12 hours of night.
And we see this in the
embodiment of Horus and Seth
in one body.
Seth is the god of darkness.
Horus is the god of light.
They're both equal.
And he's standing on
the back of the Sphinx.
And that's actually
the children of Horus
that are represented
as the Sphinx.
And if you go to
the full picture
of that scene with
the rope pullers,
it comes into alignment
a little better.
You can see that these
rope pullers on each side,
and this is a very ancient
motif of the gods pulling
the sun across the horizon.
And the sun does move
across the horizon.
That's how you measure
from solstice to solstice.
And when the sun gets directly
in between the summer solstice
and winter solstice,
that's when you
get the equinox equal
12 and 12 hours.
Now you see this symbolism
directly on the Giza Plateau.
If you're standing in
front of the Sphinx,
you're going to
see the sun setting
on the back of the Sphinx,
just like this picture.
And you're going to see
half shadow and half
light on the face of Khufu.
So that image is
being played out.
That celestial event is being
played out in symbolism,
but it's also being
played out directly
on the pyramids themselves.
>>CHURCH: Isn't it
interesting that we
didn't know that the Great
Pyramid had eight sides until we
had flight?
And we were flying over Giza,
happened to be on the equinox.
Somebody took some
pictures in 1930.
And the next thing
we've got an eight
sided pyramid and not a four.
So many questions left to
be answered, aren't there?
>>QUITT: The precision.
You have to understand
the precision of this,
it's off by a degree.
So by the physical
eye, it does not
look like it's an
eight-sided pyramid.
But it only comes to life during
the equinox using shadows.
And again, where do we see
this/ You see this in Mexico,
where on the equinox the
shadow reveals the serpent.
It's the same code
found on pyramids,
marking a very special time on
the planet of the year, which
is the spring and fall equinox.
>>CHURCH: The book is The
Gates of the Anunnaki.
Where can everybody find it?
>>QUITT: You can
find it on Amazon.
You could also find it on my
website, the crystalsun.com.
>>CHURCH: Great work, Jason.
Excellent conversation.
Thank you so much.
>>QUITT: Thank you.
>>CHURCH: Sitting in for George
Noory, I am Jimmy Church.
And thank you for watching
this episode of Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]